=head1 Tesserae Installation

=head2 Download

Get the code from GitHub:

 % git clone https://github.com/tesserae/tesserae

=head2 Configure

 % cd tesserae
 % scripts/configure.pl
 % scripts/install.pl

Under certain circumstances, in particular if you plan on using the web 
interface via a locally running webserver, you might need to customize the
configuration. See documentation on F<scripts/configure.pl> for more details.

For a default installation, the following should take care of creating the
necessary dictionaries and indices for included texts. From here, skip to the
search documentation (or see F<cgi-bin/read_table.pl>).

For a custom installation, modify the following step-by-step directions as
necessary. For further details, please see documentation for the respective
scripts.

=head2 Build dictionaries

 % scripts/build-stem-dict.pl la grc
 % scripts/patch-stem-dict.pl

=head2 Index texts for the base I<word> feature set.

Texts are stored in the F<texts/> subdirectory. Latin texts are in
F<texts/la/>, Greek are in F<texts/grc/>, and English texts are in
F<texts/en/>.

Texts are added to Tesserae using the script F<scripts/v3/add_column.pl>. The
arguments are the texts to be added. As long as the texts are in a language
subdirectory, it should know what language they are.

In some cases, a giant text has been split into smaller parts--for example,
the Aeneid is split into its twelve books. Usually the full text will be in
the root language directory, and then there will be a subdirectory named for
the text containing a bunch of F<*.part.tess> files. B<add_column.pl> expects
this arrangement.

To add the texts that came with Tesserae:

 % scripts/v3/add_column.pl texts/la/*
 % scripts/v3/add_column.pl texts/grc/*
 % scripts/v3/add_column.pl texts/en/*

The corpus that comes with Tesserae can take a while to index; use of the 
B<--parallel> flag can be a big timesaver. See documentation for 
B<add_column.pl>

=head2 Index additional feature sets

The script F<add_col_stem.pl> is used to index not only stems but in fact all
feature sets beyond I<word>. In some cases the I<stem> index is used to 
calculate other features, so it may be necessary to index stems first. E.g.:

 % scripts/v3/add_col_stem.pl texts/la/* texts/grc/*
 % scripts/v3/add_col_stem.pl --feat 3gr texts/la/* texts/grc/*
 % scripts/v3/add_col_stem.pl --feat syn texts/la/* texts/grc/*

Again, use B<--parallel> if possible.

=head2 Calculate corpus-wide statistics.

The corpus-wide word and stem counts are used in scoring. Any time new texts
are added, these stats need to be recalculated. The script is
F<scripts/v3/corpus-stats.pl>. Its arguments are the language subdirectories
to process.

 % scripts/v3/corpus-stats.pl grc la en

=head1 Initialize Ancillary Programs

=head2 Multi-text Index

It's necessary to build this index if you want to be able to cross-reference
your results for a given source and target against the entire corpus after the
fact. This takes a while and for the moment parallel processing isn't an 
option.

 % scripts/v3/index-multi.pl la grc

=head2 LSI Index

B<Note:> Topic modelling features require Python and the Gensim package. See
https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/ and the documentation for (the now mis-named)
F<scripts/lsa/lsa.train.py> and F<cgi-bin/lsa.search.py>.

 % scripts/lsa/lsa.samples.pl texts/la/*
 % scripts/lsa/lsa.train.py texts/la/*

=head2 Process benchmark set(s)

 % scripts/benchmark/build-rec.pl

=head2 Tesserae Web Interface

Assuming you're using Apache to serve the site, make sure that you turn on
the PHP and Perl modules.

Under ideal conditions, you should be able to serve the web interface from
wherever you've saved the root tesserae directory using a virtual host. The
script F<scripts/apache2/vhost-gen.pl> should be able to create the necessary
configuration file. You will have to specify a name for the vhost to
F<scripts/configure.pl> when you're installing Tesserae. (If you've already
run F<configure.pl> you should be able to re-run both it and F<install.pl>
now without affecting the texts you've already ingested, as long as you're
only modifying the URL parameters and not moving the filesystem paths.)

For example, I call my vhost I<tesserae.org>. In my /etc/hosts file I've made
this an alias for the localhost. I run configure.pl like this:

 % scripts/configure.pl --url_root http://tesserae.org

Then (on my Mac):

 % scripts/apache2/vhost-gen.pl > tesserae.org
 % sudo mv tesserae.org /etc/apache2/sites-available/
 % sudo a2ensite tesserae.org
 % sudo service apache2 reload

=head2 Create drop-down text lists

After you have run all the Tesserae indexing scripts, you need to add the
texts to the drop-down lists used by the web interface. These will be created
in the I<html/> directory. 

 % scripts/textlist.pl la grc

=head2 Start batch daemon

If you want to be able to queue batch runs using the web interface, you have
to run F<scripts/batch/batch.manage.pl> in the background:

 % scripts/batch/batch.manage.pl &

=cut
