=head1 Tesserae Web Interface

=head2 Prerequisites

Assuming you're using Apache to serve the site, make sure that you turn on the PHP and Perl modules.

First install at least the basic Tesserae system.  See I<doc/install.pod> for instructions.  Move the various Tesserae subdirectories wherever you need them to be, but keep in mind the following notes:

=over

=item html/

This is the directory out of which the interface is served, so when you set up apache you want this directory to be associated with a human-friendly URL.
	
=item tmp/

This directory has to be writable by whatever user apache will run the scripts as.
	
=item cgi-bin/

This directory has to be executable by apache.

=item css/

This directory needs to be accessible to the web as well.

=back

In addition, make sure when you edit I<perl/TessSystemVars.pm> as instructed in I<doc/install.pod> that you make lines 25--33 (the $url_* paths) point to your own server's URLs.

=head2 Ancillary programs

To use the ancillary programs and legacy versions, follow the setup instructions in I<doc/ancillary_programs.pod>, or, if you don't need these, remember to delete the links to them from the relevant PHP documents.

=head2 Create drop-down text lists

After you have run all the Tesserae indexing scripts, you need to add the texts to the drop-down lists used by the web interface.  These will be created in the I<html/> directory.  The V3 (default) ones are created using a script that should work just like I<perl/v3/add_column.pl>.  You give it the contents of one of the language subdirectories as arguments, and it adds all the texts there to the drop-down menus.

B<% perl perl/textlist.pl texts/la/*>

B<% perl perl/textlist.pl texts/grc/*>

B<% perl perl/textlist.pl texts/en/*>

and so on.  For each language, two lists are created, a left one (source text) and a right one (target text).  They look like this:

   html/textlist.la.l.php
   html/textlist.la.r.php

The source list doesn't include partial texts, the target one does.
